# physics-tests

This folder is full of basic python/pygame simulations of natural forces, including gravity, air resistance, friction, and fluid drag, including the lift and drag forces obtained by spinning a sphere in the air.  There are also simulations of various rockets, springs, and collisions between both particles and bodies.

The screen is updated theoretically at 60 frames per second, although in reality it will usually be slower because rendering lots of frames sequentially takes time.  Every update, Euler's integrator is used, which adds the acceleration of each object divided by the frame rate to the previous velocity (since acceleration is the time derivative of velocity), and then adds the new velocity of each object divided by the frame rate to the previous position (since velocity is the time derivative of position).  The acceleration at a point in time is calculated by dividing the sum of all of the forces acting on the body by the mass.  Similar methods are used for calculating the rotational position, velocity, and acceleration.  There are more accurate ways to update the scene, but this method is relatively simple and works for these purposes.

For simulating rockets, the impulse-momentum theorem is used to determine the acceleration.  For simulating collisions between rotating bodies, the principle of conservation of linear and rotational momentum are used in some cases but in others the net force and torque on the bodies are just calculated and updated using Euler's method as described above.  Both methods allow for a pretty realistic simulation of a collision.  General uniform forces like gravity and air resistance are just calculated using formulas from a physics textbook and applied to everything.
